Dears,

I am really sorry for my late answer and for my delay in sending the abstracts for the seminars.  The last two months were really dense for me and I had difficulties to finish all my works in time.

About the committee report, we have done the committee on the 24 of May and again, the agenda was so tough that I couldn't manage to bring it before. Normally	Josep Sardanyes, the secretary of the committee, brought the report the previous week. I receive an email that seems to confirm that but it was directed to "Joan", so I am not sure, can you confirm me that you have the reports? 

About the seminars' abstracts, again sorry. The version that was in my virtual folder was only the raw notes I took during the seminars, so far more than "irregular and insufficient", I totally agree with you and understand it. I uploaded a new version, but it I still need some time to do it well. I want to do all today, but I realised that the time here is 8 hours before Barcelona so when I will update it again it will already the 15 for you. 

In any case, and even if I take into account the RIN4' I participate in, I still have only 9 abstracts. One of my problem is that I am working on developing computer simulation to study the change in culture and economy during the Roman Empire. So it not easy to find conferences that fit my work. I know that it is not how we should have done it, and that probably I should have chose "random" conferences among the one proposed, in order to see how science in bio-medicine is done. But on the other hand, since November 2015, I participate to 7 international conferences:  the Winter Simulation Conference (WSC) in California, USA & the Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS) in Montreal, Canada in December 2015; Computer Application in Archaeology (CAA) in Oslo Norway and Complex Network (Complenet) in Dijon France in March 2016; Model and Simulation 7 (MS7) in Barcelona Spain in May and in June the Culture Conference in Birmingham, UK. In almost all conference (except NIPS where I only went as auditor) I went to present the work I amdoing in my PhD. I also went to 2 international workshops: Data and Cities as Complex Adaptive Systems (DACAS) in Manchester, UK, where I was awarded a bursary to participate, and "How Wrong Is My Model" in Barcelona, Spain, in May. In both workshop I met and worked with people closely related to my project. I am now participating to a 4 weeks summer school that is the most well known and first ranked summer school in my field in Santa Fe, USA. 

So during those 8 month I chose to dedicate most of my time running the experiments, the analysis and writing the article/presentations/posters that I had to send for those events and I had to skip some PRBB seminars that were less related to my fields. Again, I know that it was not how it was supposed to be done, but all those events were for me amazing invaluable sources of knowledge, learning, and scientific interactions in my very precise field of research. I hope you will understand my choices. 

Sorry again. I will do my best to at least send you a decent version of the abstract of the 8 seminars I attend (plus the RIN4 session).

All the Best,

Simon Carrignon



