Hi Ulysses.

First of all I am sorry to tell you that I will not be able to send you the 3000 words working paper that was asked for they. I am really sorry for that. The day after coming back from Manchester I had a teeth operation relatively heavy as they had to take out 3 of my teeth in order to remove a dental cyst. At first they told me that I will be able to recover quickly but I finally spent 15 days under antibiotics and taking anti-inflammatory and was fully able to work again before previous week. 
Obviously it made me late with all other stuff I had to do during February and I didn't have so much time to work on the DACAS paper.

On the other hand, when I started to be better previous week, I had a meeting with my supervisors and I present them what we did and what I saw during the Workshop. They were really enthusiastic about it and I propose to them that it could be one of the path we follow during my PhD. My idea was to take this working paper as an opportunity to start in this work and one of my supervisor (Sergi Valverde, who knows Michael Weinstock) with whom we already spoke about those kind of study, agreed to do so and to help me on that. 

Is general idea is to follow the work done by the people using scaling law to understand cities (Bettencourt and all...) to extend it with work that linked scaling law in biology with major transition and multilevel selection, and to see if it can help use to characterize the economy of Rome and compare it to different (and actual) economies. This will become a whole part of my PhD (the "case study" and "data analysis" side), the other one being the more theoretical side, that focused on modelisation and study of evolutionary dynamics in system with interaction between trade (economy) and culture.

I join you a kind of draft of what could be the abstract, like that I send you at least something today. But yet it hasn't been reviewed by Sergi with whom I will write the final paper, so it has to be taken as it is : only a draft. 

Iorry for this and all the problem that it could generate. I am having hard-working weeks to try to catch up all my works and I will do my best to send you as soon as possible the paper, I hope at the beginning of next week.

Have a nice day and again, sorry for this delay,

Simon

